I'm standing on Manitoba highway number
two just a couple of kilometres east of
Sinclair and I'm at the doll house the
doll house is in fact an art project by
Saskatchewan artist Heather Benning and
in this case she took an old two-story
abandoned farmhouse and did something
wonderfully unusual to it the design is
a classic farmhouse design from the
period that probably about 1910 or so
maybe a little earlier gable ends it's a
two-story two bedroom house with gable
ends and a steep table on the front
getting a little bit of light to the
vestibule upstairs one point it would
have been a lovely old house and it
still is anyway it's a tall house and
though the front appears as if it could
be just another shabby rundown old
farmhouse abandoned the back of the
house tells a completely different story
the story the back of the host tells is
that of the decline at the Prairie farm
what Heather Benning did was she removed
the whole back wall of the house which
had been abandoned since 1968 furnished
the house as it would have been back in
that era fifties and sixties people
would use then she covered the whole
back of the house with plexiglass and
turned it into a dollhouse and here it
stands out on the Bald Prairie its
shares the Prairie now with oil pump
jacks and out here in the Bald Prairie
this whole arc this whole house this art
project will remain until it's no longer
stable then they'll tear it down but
it's here for the light for the house
basically alright the first room we'll
look at is the kitchen or you can see
the old fridge the old stove the kitchen
table and chairs dial telephone on the
wall bouquet of flowers and the window
catch a bottle on the floor typical
prairie kitchen of the era next we look
in the living room which has furnishings
of the period a sofa and a chair the
comfy chair stairs leading up to the
second floor lamp bookshelf
under the stairs to the second floor or
similarly this would be also the stairs
to the basement a couple of pair of
skates hanging there some broke useful
items of the time and on the upper
floors there's two bedrooms with a
little vestibule in between you can see
a bed a nightstand an old chair in the
middle of the best of you'll with I wash
stand and another little table and over
here on the other bedroom with an old
metal frame bed the description of the
art project calls this a chilling
monument to the decline of the Prairie
farm deed it is